# Machine-Failure-Prediction
Predict heat dissipation machine breakdowns with minimal inaccuracies was proved by its lowest Mean Absolute Error (MAE).

Project Objective - To evaluate and contrast the efficacy of five machine learning (ML) techniques, namely; Decision Trees (DTs), K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN), Random Forest (RF), XGBoost, and Naive Bayes (NB) alongside Linear Regression (LR). The investigation considers the influence of various training to testing ratios on the capacity to forecast soil shear strength, a crucial geotechnical engineering characteristic in civil engineering design and construction. 


The datasets for the modelling procedure were generated by utilising a database of 10,000 cases of machine failure (failure and operational cases). To assess the performance of the models, the datasets were partitioned into training and testing datasets using 90/10 split dataset. The models' prediction power was evaluated using established statistical measures such as Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Correlation Coefficient (R), and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) at different training and testing ratios. 


The ability of RF's to effectively predict heat dissipation machine breakdowns with minimal inaccuracies was proved by its lowest Mean Absolute Error (MAE). The other classifiers had relatively higher MAE values indicating that their predictions were relatively more inaccurate. These data further support the idea that RF is more accurate and precise. To assess the classifiers' overall performance, the study employed the F-scores or F-measure, which combines recall and precision

To summarise, the results of this study showcased a pragmatic method for selecting the optimal machine learning model and dataset ratios to accurately predict heat dissipation failure (HDF) as an aspect of machine failure system. That being said, the model for predicting machine breakdowns has shown some good signs, especially when the RF classifier and feature selection are used, performing far better than the LR.


**Used dataset**
The dataset that is used in this paper is AI4I 2020 predictive maintenance dataset which is available online through ML repository. The dataset reflects a real predictive maintenance dataset. The dataset has 10,000 cases for machine predictive maintenance. Each predictive has seven features, which determine whether the machine fails or not (see dataset attached).
